Lesson 1: HEART ENGINE
Lesson 1: the types of engines
I- Presentation
A- Brainstorming
Exercise P19
1- The man can caught fire.
2- The engine was too hot the engine overhalls.
3- They are called heat engine.

B- Skimming
Activity 1: Skimming P19
The text is about the history of the heat engine (option B).

II- Reading for comprehension
A- Reading and explanation
B- Vocabulary check
Activity 2: Word Study P20

Activity 2: Finding Words - Matching

1. j (ex)
2. e
3. a
4. f
5. i
6. c
7. d
8. h
9. b
10. g

Activity 3: Comprehension
A. True-False Statements
1- People first used energy source to work a century ago. F (L 2-3)
2- Before Christ, water wheels were used to produce energy to produce. T (L 3-6)
3- The term "engine" was only used after the industrial revolution. T (L 6-10)
4- The conversion of fossils fuels into work differs from heat engines. F (L 12-14)
5- Steam was used to produce a mechanical effect before Christ. F (L 14-15)

B. Questions and Answers
1 - Is it possible, according to Hero, to use heated water or air to produce mechanical effect? Justify.
Yes, it is. The device demonstrated that it is possible to use heated water or air to bring about some form of mechanical effect (L21-23).

2 - How many devices did Hero invent or create? List them.
He created two devices: containing a close-fitting piston within a pipe, a vacuum pump.

3 - Describe briefly the process in the vacuum pump developed by Hero.
The pressure falls below that of the atmosphere. Atmospheric pressure acting on the other side of the piston then force into the pipe.

B. Information Transfer

1. The period of technological development: The industrial revolution.
2. Fossils fuels are considered: coal, petroleum.
3. An example of heat engines is: steam engine.
4. Hero's invention consisted: a close fitting.
5. Hero's device is composed of a, a pump and a piston which are used to and atmospheric pressure.
6. Heat engines are also called: atmospheric engine.

Activity 4: Consolidation
(Fill in the blanks with: combustion - cylinder - gases - engine - fuel - mixture - compressed - piston - mixture)

In 1903, the first aeroplane flew. It was powered by a petrol engine. This kind of (1) engine is still used in some aircraft. In the petrol engine, the (2) fuel and air mixture enters the piston. The piston rises and it compresses the (4) mixture. (5) the mixture is ignited by the spark. As the combustion (6) gases expand, they push the (7) piston down and the crankshaft turns. In the jet engine, the compressed mixes with the (8) fuel and this mixture is burnt in the (9) combustion chamber.
